Can you see faith?
Turn with me, please, to Mark chapter 2.
And notice what the Bible says about this.
In this account, Jesus is teaching in a crowded house in Copernium,
and Mark 2, 2 through 5, tells us,
and so many gathered that there was no more room, not even around the door,
and he began to speak the word to them.
And they brought him a paralytic carried by four men,
but they could not bring him right to Jesus because of the crowd.
So they removed the roof above Jesus.
And after digging and opening, they lowered the stretcher on which the paralytic was lying.
When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic child,
your sins are forgiven.
So yes, faith can be seen.
It's seen in the way we act.
Like other invisible things, faith is measured by its effects.
In fact, James 2.26 says that faith without works is dead.
The question is, can others see my faith?
What effect is my faith producing in me?
A turn with me, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
One effect that faith has on people is that it moves them to expand their activity in Kingdom service.
And notice how the Apostle Paul expressed this at 1 Corinthians 16.9.
Because a large door that leads to activity has been opened to me,
but there are many opposers.
Paul took advantage of such opportunities to show his faith.
Has Jehovah opened a door to activity for you?
In this symposium, we're going to discuss five ways in which a temporary opportunity leading to great activity and making disciples might present itself.
This could be in the form of learning a new language, moving where the need is greater,
applying to attend the school for Kingdom evangelizers,
assisting with a theocratic building project,
or donating generously to support the Kingdom work.
Now, why is faith needed to seize such opportunities?
And what blessings do we receive when we do?
First, why is faith needed to learn a new language in order to make disciples?
A turn with me, please, to Zechariah chapter 8.
A Zechariah chapter 8.
It takes faith to discern that current events are fulfilling Bible prophecy.
It takes faith to understand how we can act in harmony with God's purpose as revealed in that prophecy.
A Zechariah 8.22 says,
and many peoples and mighty nations will come to seek Jehovah of armies in Jerusalem and to beg for the favor of Jehovah.
And verse 23 says,
This is what Jehovah of armies says.
In those days, ten men out of all the languages of the nations will take hold.
Yes, they will take firm hold of the robe of a Jew saying,
We want to go with you for we have heard that God is with you people.
Ten men, people who recognize that the only way to gain Jehovah's approval is to associate
with those who already have it, the Jew, also referred to here as you people, which people.
Obviously, not the people who refuse to pronounce God's name or those who remove it all together from their Bible translations.
No, this refers to those who worship Jehovah by name, spirit-anointed Christians, the Israel of God,
referred to at Galatians 6.16.
And because ten can represent earthly completeness,
the ten men represent all men and women who have the hope of living forever on earth.
Now notice that they come not simply from all the nations,
but from all the languages of the nations in order to learn Jehovah's requirements.
Now, how will they hear the voice of the Jew in their language?
That might just be your door to activity.
Now, some might hesitate to learn a new language.
Perhaps they hold back because of the time and energy that are required.
Others feel that they lack the ability.
And while it's true that before making any decision, we need to calculate the expense,
the question here is one of faith.
Can the God who gave ability to bezzalil,
who made the sun stand still for Joshua,
who gave power to Samson, also give you the ability, time, and energy to help those
who are begging for the favor of Jehovah?
Remember, Matthew 1720,
if you have faith the size of a mustard grain, nothing will be impossible for you.
And according to Philippians 2.13,
Holy Spirit can give us even the desire to preach to those who speak another language.
Is that Spirit drawing you now?
Remember, too, that through his organization,
Jehovah provides much help for those who are learning a new language.
JW.org contains reading material, audio recordings, and videos,
in more languages than any other website.
Then we have the JW Language app
and language classes arranged by the branch office.
When faith motivates us to make sacrifices to serve Jehovah,
he will help us to succeed,
and he will reward us with many blessings.
For instance,
a couple in their 60s kept finding Chinese people
who accepted their invitations to attend congregation meetings.
So they decided to learn Chinese,
and within 10 years, they studied with 112 Chinese people.
Okay, but with so many languages,
how do I know which language to start learning?
Zechariah 822.
Who is begging for the favor of Jehovah?
You can learn about the needs in your area
by consulting with the elders and the circuit overseer.
In the following video,
note how one couple responds to a need in the field.
Oh, honestly, you shouldn't have.
You're going to need it.
Gabriel leave in to serve where the need is greater.
Made us feel like we missed the chance to expand our ministry.
Why don't we start now?
We're not getting any younger.
Yeah, we could ask the circuit overseer
for our vice on his next visit.
But I'm worried he's going to say
we should join the new language group.
It's a big need in our socket.
We've never felt like the right people
to serve in a foreign language.
Brother Lindstrom shared Zechariah 823 with us,
which helped us to see how we could have a hand in help
in men out of all the languages of the nations
to learn about Jehovah.
Learning was a struggle at first.
But with Jehovah's help, we made progress.
Slowly, even though the language was a challenge,
loving our new family was not.
Shukar Sabai.
Shukar Sabai?
My wife, her name is Elliot.
Dalai Jani Romani.
Oh, yeah, Janava.
Sari Siklin, Marijub.
It's Vinny.
Moment.
I don't.
I don't understand.
Morate Suni, I'll come up.
Say again what you say.
I'm Shukar Sabai.
My wife, her name is Elliot.
This is Verunava.
Oh, Shastu, Situ, Venice.
Come on, Dres.
OK.
Oh, thank you.
It's true.
We aren't getting any younger.
And that's why we're so glad we took the chance
to expand our ministry.
Did you notice how Elliot and Karin showed faith
and how they were blessed?
They talked to their circuit overseer
who revealed a big need in a foreign language group
in their circuit.
He then showed them Zechariah 823.
They read that scripture again later
and they prayed about it together
and then came the measurable effect of their faith.
They put forth great efforts to learn.
Then with humility and courage,
they used their new language skills at the meetings
and in the ministry.
And they were able to help those
who were begging for the favor of Jehovah.
That's how it works.
Simple?
No.
But if we invest the time and effort
to learn a new language in order to do more for Jehovah,
we can be confident that Jehovah will bless us
with a rewarding ministry.
As a couple from Britain said,
the ministry in the foreign language field
is one of the most exciting we've experienced
during our 40 years of kingdom service.
Why did they do it?
Because people who are seeking Jehovah
need to hear his requirements for life
in words they can understand.
A during a meeting held in Vietnamese,
a man stood up and said
with tears in his eyes,
thank you.
Thank you for the efforts you are making
to learn my difficult language.
I am so grateful to learn many wonderful things
from the Bible in my old age.
After attending a circuit assembly in his native Albanian,
a man in his 70s living in New York City said,
this is the best day of my life.
He made arrangements that very day
to start studying the Bible with a pioneer
who had learned his language
and within just a few years he began
serving as a ministerial servant.
These are blessings for exercising faith.
Faith is measured by the way we act.
Could you enter this door to activity in faith?
Brother Samuel heard a member of the governing body
will now consider the next talk of this symposium.
Enter the door to activity in faith.
Move to where the need is greater.